[Music]
electric actuation refers to the
electrical control and actuation of a
turbos variable-geometry mechanism
compared to pneumatic actuation it
provides a more direct link between
input signal and actual movement to
control the boost as a result vgt
electric actuation of the vanes provides
more accurate control over a wider range
of operating conditions the electro
servo actuation has several sensors and
motorized components that work in tandem
to control the turbo boost the
electrical servo actuator is often
either water or oil cooled it consists
of an electric motor and gears to
regulate the vane position a position
and speed sensor are also employed on
some applications a worm type gear is
used to actuate the vanes with the
engine operating at part throttle such
as during highway cruise the electric
actuator can reduce the exhaust back
pressure improving fuel consumption
at engine cold-start when catalysts
light off as a critical aspect electric
actuation can't shorten the time
required to bring the catalyst up to
operating temperature and maximizing
direct exhaust flow to the catalyst
other benefits include tailored
performance levels better traction
control and of course for their
improvement in fuel economy see our
other video on the detailed operation of
the electronically controlled variable
geometry turbocharger
[Music]